Isuzu Malaysia announced the delivery of 277 units of various models including light-duty trucks, medium-duty trucks and Prime Movers to City-Link Express Malaysia) Sdn Bhd.
Part of the light-duty trucks are equipped with the Isuzu Safety Plus platform, which adds on safety systems such as Anti-lock Braking System (ABS), Electronic Brake Force Distribution (EBD), Anti-slip Regulator (ASR) and Airbags.
With this truck delivery, City-Link Express becomes the first Malaysian customer to own the Isuzu Safety Plus in its fleet after the recent launch of the safety platform by Isuzu Malaysia on step

An official vehicle handover ceremony marked by ribbon-cutting and mock key presentation was held recently at Dataran City-Link Express in Jenjarom, Selangor and was attended by the
senior management and key support teams of Isuzu Malaysia, Jumbo Arena and City-Link Express.
“Our trucks are built with the Isuzu S.E.E Technology at its core, which represents safety, economy and environment to offer all our customers like City-Link Express the reliability, efficiency and versatility that they demand to help increase their business sustainability and output,” said Isuzu Malaysia CEO Koji Nakamura.

Isuzu Malaysia recently delivered 141 commercial trucks to City-Link Express (M) Sdn Bhd in an official handover ceremony at City-Link Express’ ‘Super Hub’ facility in Bandar Saujana Putra, Selangor. The handover comprised 128 units of the ELF 4-wheeler (NLR77UEE) model, eight units of the ELF 6-wheeler (NPR81UKH) model and five units of the GIGA (GXR) model.
The recent handover is said to be in continuity of the mutual trust and long standing relationship between both companies, since the first fleet deal made in 2011. The latest purchase further strengthens City-Link Express’ fleet of vehicles, in line with plans of branch expansions throughout the country, while providing fast delivery and customer satisfaction.
The handover also saw City-Link Express first purchase of the GIGA Prime Mover trucks as part of its growth. These container trucks are targeted for long distance deliveries and long haul usages, in addition to its high rigidity chassis and aerodynamic cabin design. The GIGA truck is said to offer outstanding engine output and torque, ensuring high fuel efficiency, making it an ideal choice for businesses seeking cost-effective transportation.
During the ceremony, Koji Nakamura, Chief Executive Officer of Isuzu Malaysia, expressed his gratitude and appreciation to City-Link Express for its continuous support for Isuzu Malaysia and its range of durable and economical trucks. He is confident that the Isuzu trucks recently delivered would be a vital force for City-Link Express to achieve its long-term business objectives and overall mission.
To commemorate the handover, Nakamura presented a symbolic mock key, a special banner and an F-series miniature toy truck to the founder and Executive Chairman of City-Link Express, Dato’ David Tan. Also in attendance were City-Link Express Chief Executive Officer Ronald Tan and Sales Manager Colin Tan. After the ceremony, guests were brought on a tour of the City-Link facility.
Due to the established partnership of both companies, Isuzu Malaysia would carry out training sessions for the drivers on product knowledge and basic maintenance of the GIGA GXR model. These sessions are expected to provide them with vital knowledge and understanding of the key features of the GXR model, while achieving economical and safe driving.

A million parcels are believed to be stuck in depots across the UK after courier firm City Link went into administration over Christmas.
City Link has stopped taking any new deliveries and told customers they would have to use the online tracker system to work out where their parcel is and then collect it themselves.
More than 3,700 jobs are believed to be in danger after administrators Ernst & Young failed to find a new buyer.
Scroll down for video
A million parcels are believed to be stuck in depots across the UK after courier firm City Link went into administration over Christmas
The courier company has suffered from poor systems and an overcrowded market in recent years, due to the rise in online shopping.
Customers who placed parcels with City Link on Christmas Eve for delivery have been urged to go to the depot to retrieve their parcels 'as soon as possible'.

Customer's delivery expectations have also alarmed them to change over the years as Malaysia's leading online retail platforms, such as Lazada, Shopee, and Alibaba, have included transparency as part of the shopping experience. Traditional track-and-trace technologies are no longer sufficient to meet industry standards, as customers are demanding real-time last-mile visibility - from shipping fulfillment to location of drivers, and until the estimated time of arrival. Courier providers are adopting more smart technologies, such as GPS systems and postcode algorithms, which offer greater visibility over their operations, thereby increasing the efficiency of their delivery supply chain.
A statement on City Link's website said: 'The business has ceased to accept new parcels from customers and its depots will remain open for a short period of time to enable customers or intended recipients to collect parcels.
'Those customers who placed parcels with City Link on Christmas Eve for delivery are urged to go to the depot to retrieve their parcels as soon as possible.

City Link has stopped taking any new deliveries and told customers they would have to use the online tracker system to work out where their parcel is
More than 3,700 jobs are believed to be in danger after administrators Ernst & Young failed to find a new buyer.
'Any intended recipients who have been notified of a failed delivery are also urged to go to the depot to collect their parcel as soon as possible.
'The depots will reopen following the Christmas holiday break on Monday 29 December 2014 to enable parties to collect parcels.
'City Link will no longer be able to deliver any further parcels and customers are urged to make alternative arrangements for future deliveries.
'The online system to access parcel tracking and therefore check on the whereabouts of your parcel is still live and should be used to identify if you need to collect your parcel and where it is located.'
Bosses at the troubled firm were branded 'cowards' after workers only discovered their jobs were at risk via news reports on Christmas Day revealing the business had gone into administration.
Hunter Kelly, joint administrator to City Link, said the company has incurred substantial losses over several years.
'These losses reflect a combination of intense competition in the sector, changing customer and parcel recipient preferences, and difficulties for the company in reducing its cost base,' he said.
'The strain of these losses became too great and all but used up Better Capital's £40 million investment, which was made in 2013 and intended to help to turn around the company.
Union officials have been holding talks with administrators to try to save employees' jobs.
RMT general secretary Mick Cash said: 'RMT's objective now is to do everything we can to rescue jobs in the wake of the shock collapse into administration of City Link on Christmas Day.
'Despite the festive season there can be no delays in getting on with the rescue programme and we expect the Government through Vince Cable to take an active role right now. The thousands of workers caught in the middle of this crisis deserve full support from every quarter.'
The union has demanded 'urgent talks' with Business Secretary Mr Cable and said it is disappointed the minister will not meet them until the new year.
Retailers who used City Link, such as John Lewis and Amazon, have had to take emergency measures to ensure the delivery of parcels.
Roger Sumner-Rivers, founder of London-based firm ParcelHero, said the firm's closure could have a major impact on the UK parcel market.
He said there were now 'serious concerns as to how the carriers left in the market are going to be able to absorb the estimated 76 million additional parcels City Link delivered each year'.
'The companies will all require immediate service, which will put a huge burden on every carrier's infrastructure, from the sales department right through the network to the delivery couriers at the other end,' he added.
