DHL eCommerce Solutions, a division of Deutsche Post DHL Group (DPDHL Group), has recorded triple digit revenue growth in the third quarter, corroborating the tremendous growth of e-commerce in the region. Equally, the number of parcels that DHL eCommerce Solutions has been processing monthly in Malaysia has doubled to approximately 90,000 pieces per day from a year ago and is set to double again to approximately 200,000 pieces per day once the central hub facility in Puchong is automated in the first quarter of 2021.

The number of parcels that DHL eCommerce Solutions has been processing monthly in Malaysia has doubled from a year ago and is set to double again in the first quarter of 2021.

"Malaysia's e-commerce sector is expected to grow at 24.7% in 2020 and will reach US$12.6 billion by 2024. This growth will only accelerate post-pandemic as businesses, small and large, move and scale online, and online shopping becomes increasingly second-nature to consumers," said Kiattichai Pitpreecha, CEO of DHL eCommerce Solutions Southeast Asia. "We're bolstering our network of depots across the country and investing in automation and digitalization to increase capacity, enhance efficiency and provide a seamless customer experience." DHL eCommerce Solutions currently has 45 depots across Malaysia, which serve as consolidation and distribution centers for the surrounding community. The company added five new depots in 2020 and will be opening another 12 depots over the next six months. To strengthen its last-mile services in Malaysia, DHL eCommerce Solutions has also grown its retail service points to over 450 and will soon be introducing a retail app for consumers to book, track and find shipments, and deploying a chat-bot to facilitate inquiries.
Anil Gautam, Managing Director of DHL eCommerce Solutions Malaysia added, "To deal with the changing market dynamics and keep pace with the expansion, we are actively recruiting with plans to increase our workforce by more than 60% by end 2021. We see massive opportunities in the Klang Valley region but are equally witnessing heightened activities in East Malaysia as online spending increases. I'm confident that these investments into our people, technology and network will position us well for the booming Internet economy that is driven by a fast-growing, engaged, young and mobile-first wave of consumers."
DHL eCommerce Solutions has also tailored its nationwide network to provide sellers and consumers with convenient pick-up and drop-off locations across Malaysia. Catering specifically to the C2C and B2C e-commerce market where cash capabilities and secure delivery are key, it has also introduced value-added products such as cash on delivery with daily remittance, multi-piece deliveries and One-Time-Password based Secure Delivery services. DHL – The logistics company for the world
DHLis the leading global brand in the logistics industry. Our DHL divisions offer an unrivalled portfolio of logistics services ranging from national and international parcel delivery, e-commerce shipping and fulfillment solutions, international express, road, air and ocean transport to industrial supply chain management. With about 380,000 employees in more than 220 countries and territories worldwide, DHL connects people and businesses securely and reliably, enabling global sustainable trade flows. With specialized solutions for growth markets and industries including technology, life sciences and healthcare, engineering, manufacturing & energy, auto-mobility and retail, DHL is decisively positioned as "The logistics company for the world".

DHL is part of Deutsche Post DHL Group. The Group generated revenues of more than 63 billion euros in 2019. With sustainable business practices and a commitment to society and the environment, the Group makes a positive contribution to the world. Deutsche Post DHL Group aims to achieve zero-emissions logistics by 2050.

ALTHOUGH globalisation has been hit hard because of the Covid-19 pandemic, it has had a different effect on DHL Express.
Since the beginning of last year, the German package delivery giant most recognisable by its distinctive red-and-yellow corporate colours, has experienced a 50% surge in e-commerce shipments in Asia-Pacific, excluding China.
In an interview with The Edge, DHL Express CEO John Pearson highlights that digitisation will be a key focus area for the courier delivery specialist in tackling increased demand from e-commerce.
Moreover, he says, the pandemic has presented the company with an opportunity to further improve its operational systems in terms of efficiency and resilience.
“With the growing need for e-commerce and consumer expectations of parcel delivery, one of the main challenges to becoming a competitive brand in cross-border e-commerce is to ensure that the ever-growing number of parcels are delivered in the shortest time possible. This also includes tracking and managing the accuracy and consistency of delivery timings,” Pearson says.

Owing to the complexity arising from multiple delivery hand-offs in each leg of the journey and unexpected issues that may arise during border clearance, the fulfilment of the package will require close cooperation between all stakeholders.
“This will drive the need to adopt standardisation and digitisation for cross-border e-commerce and make the entire process seamless. Truly embracing e-commerce as a business means ensuring a seamless customer experience end-to-end while navigating the increased complexity and aligning the various moving parts in the supply chain,” he stresses.
DHL Express is the express delivery arm of German multinational logistics firm Deutsche Post AG, which is listed on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. With a market capitalisation of more than €50 billion (RM202.2 billion), Deutsche Post is about 20%-owned by KfW Bankengruppe, a state-owned development bank.
According to its annual report 2019, Deutsche Post saw its consolidated net profit grow 26.4% to €2.623 billion in 2019, up from €2.075 billion in 2018.
Its express division — whose global network spans more than 220 countries and territories and some 105,000 employees providing services to around 2.7 million customers — contributed a revenue of €17.101 billion in 2019, of which €6.097 billion, or a third, came from Asia-Pacific.
In January last year, Pearson, a 58-year-old Briton, was appointed CEO of DHL Express, and thus appointed to the board of management of Deutsche Post. The express industry veteran has also had stints in the Middle East, including Saudi Arabia and Dubai, Singapore, the US and Belgium.
Citing the DHL Global Connectedness Index 2020, Pearson points out that there had been an unprecedented collapse in people flows last year.
“For example, a 70% decrease in the number of people travelling to foreign countries has strongly affected the index. Nevertheless, global connectedness overall has been surprisingly robust. It is unlikely to fall below levels seen during the 2008/09 global financial crisis,” he says.
While globalisation has been negatively affected by Covid-19, he observes the current crisis has also shown how indispensable international connections are for maintaining prosperity and continuity.
“Trade in goods has already recovered more than three quarters of its initial decline. And digital information flows have surged, as in-person contact went into the online world. This has boosted international internet traffic, phone calls and e-commerce,” he explains.
While the pandemic has presented significant challenges, Pearson notes that trade has turned out to be a key lifeline for economies and healthcare systems during difficult times.
“At DHL, we’ve had to redesign our network when lockdowns grounded commercial flights; we’ve had to find new routes and solutions when borders were closed. And when companies swung back into action after forced plant closures, we did all we could to ensure that they were stocked to restart production.”

Despite the export bans early in the pandemic, Pearson says trade in products used to fight Covid-19 has boomed, and such a trend is likely to continue with the global rollout of Covid-19 vaccines.
“This also makes me confident to expect a bright future for globalisation in the coming years. Will we see changes? Of course. Among other things, we might see less global business travel and much more e-commerce. But globalisation overall isn’t going away. As I like to say, it is too big to fail. People will want to continue to trade with each other.”
Malaysia an important market
Commenting on DHL Express’ operations in Malaysia, Pearson says that, following the pandemic, he sees potential in the recovery of the country’s trade with other nations.
“Given Malaysia’s trade is closely tied with China, a reinvigoration of this connection, together with the potential rise in regional supply networks, means the country could stand to quickly recover, starting with its export-oriented manufacturing sector, a strong contributor to the GDP (gross domestic product) at 21.46% of the total in 2019,” he says.
“Suffice it to say, Malaysia is a very important market for us and we will continue to invest in our infrastructure and people in the country, strengthening our footprint to support the many local SMEs (small and medium enterprises) looking to reach customers globally.”
A check with the Companies Commission of Malaysia (SSM) shows that DHL Express (M) Sdn Bhd generated a net profit of RM5.95 million, on revenues of RM659.618 million in the financial year ended Dec 31, 2019.
It is worth noting that, for a country with a population of more than 30 million, Malaysia had 109 courier service licence holders operating as at October last year. This prompted the Malaysian Communications and Multimedia Commission (MCMC) to halt the issue of new licences for courier services last year for a two-year period from September 2020.
While acknowledging that there are indeed many players in the Malaysian courier industry, Pearson believes all serve distinct market segments that may be mutually exclusive to others.
“DHL Express fills a niche space with our specialisation in inbound and outbound international express shipping, for instance, next-day delivery to major cities in Asia and Europe. In fact, we represent one of four business units in the larger DHL family, with our other business units dedicated to global forwarding, supply chain and e-commerce solutions,” he says.
According to him, the prolonged period of restricted living conditions has further skewed consumer behaviour towards e-commerce compared with brick-and-mortar businesses.
The greater demand for orders and speed may soon eclipse the capability of online retailers, presenting an opportunity for logistics providers to include fulfilment in their portfolio. As a result, there will be a higher concentration of logistics activity catering for pharmaceuticals, non-perishable foodstuff and other sectors that have remained relatively profitable throughout the crisis.
“The diversity of our businesses reflects the untapped potential still possible in logistics. We see huge opportunities and will continue to invest in our infrastructure and people to enhance our product offerings in meeting the rapid sector development and demands of customers here. Our company has always been about finding growth and service expansion internally, and that remains our modus operandi moving into the future,” he says.
New investments include an order for eight additional Boeing 777 freighters, with first deliveries scheduled for 2022.
“The investment marks a further step in DHL Express’ expansion of its intercontinental air network to meet customer demand in fast-growing international express shipping markets,” the company announced in a media statement last Wednesday.

the world’s leading international express service provider, has been recognized as the second best place to work of all examined companies around the world. In its 2020 employer ranking Great Place to Work® and FORTUNE recognized the extensive investments and implementations of various initiatives to create a positive, motivating and appreciative working atmosphere in more than 220 countries and territories. Every year, Great Place to Work®, a global people analytics and consulting firm, assesses the work experience of employees through their certification program. In 2020, more than 10,000 organizations participated in the survey process, representing the voices of 10.2 million employees in 92 countries.
In its 2020 employer ranking, Great Place to Work® and FORTUNE recognized DHL Express as the second best place to work in the world.
DHL Express annually invests a double digit million Euro amount in its employees around the world, running various HR initiatives to continuously improve working conditions and motivate its teams. For example, there is ‘DHL4her’, a program dedicated to supporting and developing women; DHL’s Got Heart which enables DHL to support the causes that its people are passionate about outside of work; and the Certified International Specialist (CIS) learning program which offers various curriculums, equipping DHL Express employees with the knowledge that they need to deliver the best quality service for customers each day. Due to the remarkable efforts of DHL staff during the Covid-19 pandemic, the company paid each employee around the world a one-off bonus of EUR 300 in September 2020.
“The pandemic has tested frontline companies like DHL Express like never before and we’re proud that our employees have risen to the challenge. Despite the pandemic still affecting our lives, and the safety of our employees remaining a top priority, they insist on being part of the solution to support communities and bolster global trade”, says John Pearson, CEO of DHL Express. “This spirit is the result of our culture of recognition and is a key driver for our outstanding employee satisfaction. I’m very proud of our initiatives that foster the compassion, courage, and commitment of our teams. People are at the heart of our company. That was true for the time before COVID, it is true now, and will be true in the future.”
“Congratulations to DHL Express, perhaps the most global company in the world. DHL delivered to millions of customers every day in 2020 during the most difficult circumstances faced by society since World War 2. Their people wore masks and drove, walked, flew, hiked, bicycled, and whatever it took to safely deliver what customers needed in every corner of the globe. Millions of lives depended on DHL and their great people kept the earth safely spinning. These logistical first responders are fueled by a high-trust “for all” culture. These are passion-fueled people led by purpose-driven leaders who serve their people so they can serve their customers. Every day they accept the challenge of delighting customers, caring for every employee, globally redefining diversity, and inclusion, and decreasing their impact on the environment, while improving every community in which they operate. Simply put, DHL’s got heart and the world is better because of it. Congratulations!” says Great Place to Work’s CEO, Michael Bush.
DHL Express ranked number two on the list of World’s Best Workplaces 2020, improving from its position of fourth best workplace in the world in 2019. DHL Express saw itself on 42 national best workplaces lists, with an additional 17 countries achieving certification status. In April, DHL Express took the top spot on the list of Best Workplaces in Asia, for the second consecutive year.
“DHL Express just had one of its best third quarter results ever, and our success is absolutely due to the dedication, passion and know-how of our people. It is their ability to deliver peak performance on behalf of our customers, and their commitment to continuous improvement, which makes us the world’s leading experience service provider. We are immensely proud that our organization is consistently ranked every year amongst the best workplaces in the world, and it is proof that we are on the right track. We will continue to invest in our people and ensure that every one of our 26,000 employees in Asia Pacific have a ‘Best Day Every Day’,” said Ken Lee, CEO of DHL Express Asia Pacific.
