The Ministry of Human Resources’ investigation conducted at the courier company J&T Express’ premises in Peak, following a violent package distribution incident, found that it was trigged by extra workload and the company’s employees’ payment issue.
The ministry, in a statement today, said that the investigation found that there were employees, especially in the delivery department, dissatisfied with the provision of bonuses based on performance and unilateral changes made in the commission payment structure.
“The investigation also found that the incident occurred at a company business premises located in Peak, was due to extra workload experienced by workers in the warehouse division due to the sudden increase in packages.
“It was also found that some employees, especially in the delivery department (dispatch), were dissatisfied with the provision of bonuses based on performance and unilateral changes in the commission payment which would cause the income of employees involved to decrease,” the ministry said.
Recently, a 15-second viral video showing several employees of the company throwing away customers’ parcels with some of them were shouting, believed to be dissatisfied with the management which was said to be related to salary payment problems.
The ministry also said the employer had said that the issue relating to the incident had been resolved and it was due to a misunderstanding, apart from issuing a statement of apology to the customers and explaining about the bonus system to the staff.
“Employers are urged to always consult with employees before making any changes that involve their interests. This is to ensure the harmony as well as the welfare of employees will continue to be protected,” the ministry said.


Following recent controversy surrounding J&T Express, a staff member shared that he saw a sharp drop in the number of parcels processed in a single day
Two weeks ago, the courier company landed in hot water following allegations of a pay cut, sparking a strike by employees. Footage of workers violently handling parcels at a warehouse then made its rounds on social media. Recently, a video by TikTok user @wbas_photography, whose real name is Muhammad Afiq Sazali, showed that J&T Express faced a decline in business after the fiasco.In the clip, he noted, "Usually there would be 100 to 150 parcels delivered in a day. After the incident the other day, there are only 20 to 30 items to be delivered."
The original post on TikTok garnered over 1.4 million views and 10,100 comments. The video has also been reposted several times across different platforms.
In an interview with SAYS, Muhammad Afiq said that the situation depicted in the video is the reality faced by him and fellow J&T delivery drivers after netizens called for a boycott of the company
The 28-year-old from Penang explained, "Before this, I would send out at least 100 parcels a day. After the incident, it really affected my work. I made the video just to share the situation on TikTok. I never intended for it to go viral.". "However, the video was recorded last week. Since then, business has been picking up slowly, but it is still is not as good as it used to be before. Right after the incident, I would only send out about 20 parcels a day. But this week, it has gone up to about 70 to 80 a day.". Muhammad Afiq's short video showed him opening the doors of a J&T Express delivery lorry only to reveal a small number of parcels inside. Meanwhile, during our interview, he added that fellow colleagues are predicting things will get better in time, especially due to the fact that platforms like Shopee and Lazada are scheduling promotions in March.
"It's just a little upsetting that the incident has affected all of us, including those who are sincere in their work," he said "However, I understand that the issue is very serious and could impact our customers' views on us as a company.". When asked about the reactions he got from his video, Muhammad Afiq explained that he received mixed comments."Some people are empathetic and said they will continue to support J&T, but others are still upset about the situation.". "For me, since I also work part-time as a wedding photographer, I am not completely dependent on my job as a delivery driver. But some of my friends who work full-time are actually affected. Recently it's been tough, a few staff members have also resigned due to many reasons," he said.

The company has denied the claims and said that it never reduced its workers' salaries:
J&T Denies Pay Cut Allegations Following Viral Video Of Employees Tossing Parcels Around
It was said that J&T Express had reduced employee commissions from RM1 per parcel to RM0.30.
Read the full story
Meanwhile, the Malaysian Communications and Multimedia Commission (MCMC) said that courier companies that fail to protect the rights of consumers can be slapped with both fine and jail:
MCMC Issues Warning To J&T Express Over Video Showing Staff Mishandling Customers' Parcels
The regulatory body also said that courier companies that fail to protect the rights of consumers can be fined up to ...
Read the full story
An investigation by the Ministry of Human Resources found that the J&T issue was triggered by extra workload and dissatisfaction over the changes in the commission payment structure:
HR Ministry: Extra Workload And Payment Issue Caused J&T Staff To Mishandle Parcels
The Ministry of Human Resources has urged J&T Express to hold discussions with its workers before making any changes ...

Yesterday (7 Feb), workers from the Perak J&T Express (J&T) logistics company apologised for throwing the packages around, according to NST.
In a statement of apology, the seven workers appeared in a 57-second video uploaded on J&T Express Malaysia-Perak’s Facebook page and described what happened as “violent sorting of packages”.

“We want to clarify that there is no action involving a strike here. Once again we apologise for affecting the name of the company and the goods of Malaysian customers. We will do our best to process and deliver customers’ packages as soon as possible,” one of the workers said.
Besides that, J&T also apologised on another matter of other logistics workers that were stealing food and drinks from packages. The company then admitted this is an error in the management for hiring temporary workers and provided simple training, as they needed to handle the high-volume of packages during MCO.
Watch their apology here: ICYMI, Malaysian social media was ablaze with videos of what looked like protesting and rioting happening at a J&T Malaysia warehouse over the weekend. Clips could be seen of workers throwing parcels, while the apology above addressed a video which showed mountains of undelivered parcels and unloaded delivery trucks. The issue appears to have come from a change in the commission system, which allegedly drastically reduced the earnings of delivery riders.
Addressing the salary cut allegations, J&T posted up a statement on its official Facebook saying, “J&T will not deduct or owe employees a penny of wages, and hereby declare that we are willing to accept the supervision and inspection by the public and institutions”.
The post also wrote, “For employees who have worked for less than a year, bonuses are paid according to the length of working time without prejudice. Unfortunately, certain employees are not clear about the bonus payment scheme which led to violent sorting of packages on 4 February, inciting some employees to make collective disturbances, and posting the videos to social media”.
Initially, many netizens were on the workers’ side, but after finding out that the reason for the unruly incident was due to a misunderstanding about pro-rated bonus payouts (something that should be common knowledge to every working adult), it seems that support is dying down.
Several workers from delivery company J&T Express have recorded an apology video to their employer and customers over a recording that showed some staff throwing around packages at a sorting centre in Perak over a pay dispute.

The company issued a statement yesterday that the incident was not due to a supposed pay cut as alleged online, and clarified that it was over a misunderstanding about bonus payments.

The workers confirmed this in the apology video posted on the Facebook page of the J&T Express Perak.

“We (are) from J&T Express Perak. Recently, a video went viral on social media showing that workers did not follow the standard operating procedures (SOPs) and threw around customers’ items.

“We want to apologise and want to state that there are no internal issues or wage deductions between the company and employees of J&T Express Perak. We want to explain that we didn’t resort to a protest. We want to again apologise because we affected the name of the company and spoilt the items of Malaysians

“Again we want to apologise to the company and customers of J&T Express Malaysia,” the group of seven workers said, and promised customers that they would deliver the packages soonest. In it's statement released last night, the company said the wage issue that caused employees to deliberately mishandle parcels in its sorting warehouse stemmed from a misunderstanding by some workers over bonus payments, and denied that it will deduct the regular wages of staff.

The firm explained that the dispute arose due to the payment of bonuses to employees with less than a year of service, which some of workers misinterpreted.
It said this led to the recorded protest in which some customer packages were damaged but insisted that the dispute was resolved a day after the recording was made on February 4.

J&T Express also acknowledged complaints on social media about damaged and opened parcels with missing contents and promised compensation “formulated special regulations and management methods for settlement of claims and supervision of similar incidents, and fast settlement of lost packages
