In a press statement by Pos Malaysia Berhad (Pos Malaysia), the company has stated that it’s operations have been impacted due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.
“While there is an increase in parcel volume throughout the MCO, Pos Malaysia’s other businesses namely mail, international parcels, Pos Aviation, Pos Logistics and others have been affected. Despite this, Pos Malaysia continues to protect the livelihood of over 15,000 front liners and operational support employees and ensure that their needs are prioritised,” it said.
This comes after a viral tweet showed a Pos Laju employee receiving news of no bonus hand-outs this year. “Last year, the company paid out a bonus of RM1,000. This year, the workload has increased but there is no bonus,” said the postman.
While many severely-impacted sectors in the country resorted to salary reductions, job cuts or other drastic measures, Pos Malaysia has assured in ensuring their employees’ future are protected.
“Pos Malaysia is currently undergoing a transformation process to turn the business around. As our transformation plan progresses and situation has improved, we will ensure better rewards for our people. At the same time, while the business is adjusting to the new normal, we continue to carry out our responsibility and serve the country as an essential service provider during this challenging time.”
“This spirit is embedded in our DNA and is our obligation under the Universal Service Obligation (USO). We are also grateful for the collective effort by our employees, who worked tirelessly to ensure deliveries and services are carried out with minimal disruptions especially toward the Hari Raya Aidilfitri festive season,” the company stated.
The Covid-19 pandemic is a global issue that is affecting supply-chains worldwide, causing the weakening or closing of businesses and the loss of livelihoods for many. Malaysia is also not excluded from this global crisis.

Based on its recent analysis of the E-Commerce and logistics service market, Frost & Sullivan recognizes Pos Laju with the 2020 Malaysia E-Commerce Logistics Service Provider of the Year and 2020 Malaysia Express Logistics Service Provider of the Year awards. Its best-in-class facilities, broad range of products, strong network, and experienced workforce have enabled the company to consistently provide reliable, cost-effective services that present sustainability benefits for itself and its customers. With more than 200 branches nationwide, Pos Laju has established itself as the leading express and delivery service provider in Malaysia and the best in many logistics services.

Its best-in-class facilities, broad range of products, strong network, and experienced workforce have enabled the company to consistently provide reliable, cost-effective services that present sustainability benefits for itself and its customers. With more than 200 branches nationwide, Pos Laju has established itself as the leading express and delivery service provider in Malaysia and the best in many logistics services.
"Pos Laju is the courier arm of the Pos Malaysia Group which offers express parcel delivery services. The Group has an extensive courier network infrastructure, with more than 1,500 primary channels of service delivery that include 99 branches, 39 kiosks, 162 agents spread across the country," said Gopal R, Global Vice President of the Transportation & Logistics Practice at Frost & Sullivan. To date, Pos Laju has established about 139 EziBox, 100 EziDrop, and 19 EziDrive-Thru, and is targeting another 3,000 touchpoints via partner operator networks in the near future."
The company has set up a new integrated processing center (IPC2) at KLIA that can process 230,000 parcels per day. With its existing IPC1 and IPC2, Pos Laju recorded the greatest processing capacity in Malaysia at 530,000 parcels per day. It has ensured delivery of sufficient manpower and an in-house fleet to provide efficient, uninterrupted services to its customers. In 2019, the company's fleet of 3,020 delivery vehicles (trailers, prime movers, lorries, three freighter aircraft, two bulk carrier vessels) as well as 6,599 motorcycles recorded delivery of 59.8 million parcels and 175.6 million parcels per annum for each vehicle type.
More than 700 postmen have been deployed in numerous rural areas and islands, reaching 241,000 villagers nationwide. The company has increased the frequency of flights from Peninsular to East Malaysia to transport more items back and forth. Expanding its digital capabilities, Pos Laju introduced SendParcel: a digital service that empowers customers to check delivery rates, book a delivery, and generate consignment notes online. It also allows eCommerce businesses to initiate bulk orders for domestic and international delivery. With this platform, Pos Laju aims to broaden its footprint, especially among SMEs and micro SMEs that account for more than 98% of its business in Malaysia.
"Pos Laju focuses on the entire supply chain ecosystem and services as  best practices so it can manage its clients' and its own needs better," noted Gopal. "Pos Laju stands out among other market participants for its extensive product portfolio. The company has set strategic plans to strengthen its facilities and enable even greater operational efficiency by acquiring improved tools and supporting digital transformation that will result in better service quality for its customers."
Each year, Frost & Sullivan presents this award to the company that has  maintained consistently high standards of service quality that resulted in trusted and strategic relationships. The company has leveraged on customer feedback, demonstrated superior speed/timeliness, ensured close to frictionless interaction, delivered outstanding price/performance value, offered a rich customer purchase/ownership experience, and raised its overall brand equity.
Frost & Sullivan Best Practices awards recognize companies in a variety of regional and global markets for demonstrating outstanding achievements and superior performance in areas such as leadership, technological innovation, customer service, and strategic product development. Industry analysts compare market participants and measure performance through in-depth interviews, analysis, and extensive secondary research to identify best practices in the industry.

Pos Malaysia Bhd said while there is an increase in parcel volume during the country’s movement control order (MCO) period, the company’s other businesses including mail and international parcels, besides operations under Pos Aviation and Pos Logistics have been affected.
Pos Malaysia said in a statement today that despite the current situation, the group continues to protect its 15,000 front liners and operational support employees' livelihood and ensure that their needs are prioritised.
The group was responding to recent commentaries that surfaced on social media and the news recently. It, however, did not specify which media commentaries it was referring to.
"The Covid-19 pandemic is a global issue that is affecting supply-chains worldwide, causing the weakening or closing of businesses and the loss of livelihoods for many. Malaysia is also not excluded from this global crisis.
"While many severely impacted sectors in the country resorted to salary reductions, job cuts or other drastic measures, Pos Malaysia continues to strive hard in ensuring that these employees’ future are protected. Pos Malaysia is currently undergoing a transformation process to turn the business around. As our transformation plan progresses and situation has improved, we will ensure better rewards for our people.
"At the same time, while the business is adjusting to the new normal, we continue to carry out our responsibility and serve the country as an essential service provider during this challenging time. This spirit is embedded in our DNA and is our obligation under the Universal Service Obligation,” Pos Malaysia said.
The group said it is also grateful for the collective effort by its employees, who worked tirelessly to ensure deliveries and services are carried out with minimal disruptions, especially towards the Hari Raya Aidilfitri festive season.
"Pos Malaysia hopes for the continuous support from the public and we also hope that they understand the difficult challenges that we must endure during this difficult time,” the company said.
At the midday break today, Pos Malaysia's share price settled down one sen or 0.93% at RM1.06 for a market capitalisation of RM829.74 million. The stock saw some four million shares traded.
Malaysia’s MCO, which was initially scheduled between March 18 and 31, requires non-essential businesses to stop operations, while the public has been ordered to stay at home to curb the Covid-19 outbreak.
On March 25, Prime Minister Tan Sri Muhyiddin Yassin said the government decided to extend the MCO until April 14, because updates from the National Security Council and Health Ministry indicated an increase in Covid-19 cases. On April 10, Muhyiddin said the government was extending the MCO until April 28.
On April 23, he said the MCO will be extended for another two weeks until May 12.
On May 10, the premier said the MCO, currently with loosened restrictions under the conditional MCO, will be extended to June 9.

Pos Laju adopts new verification system, now has contactless deliveries
With the reinitiation of MCO, most of us are back indoors with few reasons to go out. But there are times when you just need to buy stuff, which is why e-commerce and deliveries have become a norm. On that topic, Pos Malaysia is tweaking how its deliveries work.

Normally, Pos Laju requires you to provide your IC number when you receive your deliveries. That's no longer the case now that the company has introduced a new verification system. Specifically, recipients will now get a 6-digit code sent to their phone via SMS, which you will need to provide upon receiving your package.
As you can probably tell, this allows for actual contactless deliveries by Pos Laju. You can have the postman maintain a distance from you, give them the 6-digit code, then collect the package once they've verified and departed from your premise. So do keep an eye for that SMS if you're expecting a Pos Laju delivery.

Pos Malaysia put out a statement saying that they are “still experiencing a surge of parcel volume especially in East Malaysia”. They’re asking customers for their patience and understanding during this time.

They explain that there are potential delays in parcel deliveries, especially in East Malaysia, due to “limited availability in flights”. However, they mention that they are “working tirelessly to maximise their capacity” to ensure deliveries are carried out as soon as possible.

The statement was then met with many comments from netizens—many of them weren’t too happy with Pos Malaysia.
Twitter user @mhmdxqb pointed out that “other courier companies like Ninja Van and J&T have faster service”. However, I searched for the other courier companies on Twitter, and they had the some of the same complaints as Pos Malaysia.
Pos Malaysia also recently had some controversy as allegedly, postmen would not be receiving any bonus this year despite the increase in deliveries during the movement control order period. Afterwards, the company says it is “committed to ensure that its employees’ future are protected”, and that “they are undergoing a transformation process to turn the business around”.
